Building an offchain::ipfs app (#9)
rs-ipfs/offchain-ipfs-manual: src/building-an-offchain-ipfs-app.md

# Building an `offchain::ipfs` app

> In this section we’ll cover the essentials on what you'll need to start building out your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we’ll cover the essentials on what you'll need to start building your
```

application with `offchain::ipfs`. We do so by way of an example.

1. First, we walk you through the example Substrate pallet that's included with `offchain::ipfs`
2. Then, we provide example code from two Rust clients (`substrate-subxt` and
`substrat-api-client`), and one JavaScript client (`polkadot.js`) as they relate

We expect feedback on this pallet, but also we hope that the reference implementation will inspire
builders to create their own pallets, expose their own JSON-RPC endpoints, and call them from
their applications similarly.

> ## How it all works

Author: Need more input here, both in terms of correctness and detail

Reviewer 2: 1. On chain initialisation or synced blocks, the Rust IPFS node is launched as a part of a offchain worker runtime and will stay running in the background.
2. User makes JSON-RPC call to submit an extrinsic to the node's runtime, using the callable functions exposed from the custom pallet.
1. The requests add to queues stored in Substrate storage database, defined in the custom pallet.
1. On block import (intervals depending on the type of request), the node's runtime passes some requests from the queues to a new offchain worker - let's call the request offchain worker
1. The request offchain worker performs future requests to the Rust IPFS node, and the returned results resolve the futures
1. The request offchain worker registers the result in its API the the node's runtime, which reads it and emits events declared in the custom pallet. The request offchain worker stops running

# Building an `offchain::ipfs` app

In this section we’ll cover the essentials on what you'll need to start building your
application with `offchain::ipfs`. We do so by way of an example.

1. First, we walk you through the example Substrate pallet that's included with `offchain::ipfs`

> 2. Then, we provide example code from two Rust clients (`substrate-subxt` and

Reviewer: nit: I'd go with "First" + "Second" _or_ "1" + "2" instead of both

`substrat-api-client`), and one JavaScript client (`polkadot.js`) as they relate

We expect feedback on this pallet, but also we hope that the reference implementation will inspire
builders to create their own pallets, expose their own JSON-RPC endpoints, and call them from
their applications similarly.

## How it all works

It helps, first, to have a basic understanding of how a request flows from a user of your
application, through the Substrate offchain-worker, to the native runtime, over to IPFS,
and then all the way back up to your application again.

1. Once the chain is initialized or blocks are synced, the embedded Rust IPFS
node is launched and connected to the offchain worker runtime. It will stay running
in the background.

> 2. The user makes JSON-RPC call to submit an extrinsic to the node's runtime, using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The user makes a JSON-RPC call to submit an extrinsic to the node's runtime, using
```

the callable functions exposed from the custom pallet.

> 3. The requests is added to the relevant queue in the Substrate storage database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The request is added to the relevant queue in the Substrate storage database.
```

This is also defined in the custom pallet.

> 4. On block import the node's runtime passes some requests from the queues to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Upon import of specified blocks, the node's runtime passes the requests from the queues to an
```

> new offchain worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
offchain worker.
```

> 5. The request offchain worker performs future requests to the Rust IPFS node, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The offchain worker relays the desired requests to the Rust IPFS node, and
```

> the returned results resolve the futures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the node returns futures resolving to results
```

> 6. The request offchain worker registers the result in its API the the node's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The offchain worker registers the results and relays them to the substrate
```

> runtime, which reads it and emits events declared in the custom pallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtime, which processes them and acts upon them as specified in the custom pallet.
```

> 7. The request offchain worker stops running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The offchain worker stops running
```
